#! /bin/sh
help_text() { 
	cat << '====='
bom: Output Unicode byte-order mark for current locale.

boxify: Draw ASCII box characters around your table data.

br: Bump revision of text containing a year-range/revision specification.

bullet: Put bullet symbol at the beginnings of all lines.

byte-units: Display a numeric quantity of bytes as dynamic units such as MB.

cco: Encomment and decomment multiline C source code comments.

chomp: Removes the terminator sequence from a single line, if present.

crg: Replace selected line by a copyright notice.

cs: Sets the UI clipboard by the text read from standard input.

cstr: Filter for editing concatenated C strings. Converts between C form and
 free text form, auto-detecting the current form.

csv_from_textlines:
 Quotes the contents of arbitrary lines read from standard input as necessary
 to interpret the contents of every line as a single CSV field and write the
 result to standard output.
 .
 The input lines can contain any character except newline, which is used to
 terminate every input line.

date_from_dd.mm.yyyy_into_yyyy-mm-dd_xfm:
 Convert all occurrences of MM.DD.YYYY into YYYY-MM-DD.

decimal_dot_into_locale_comma_xfm:
 Converts "." into whatever your locale considers the decimal point.

dot-as-paragraph-separator-toggle:
 Adds or removes a dot (".") character at the end of lines otherwise only
 containing whitespace. Useful for editing control files from *.deb files.
 With option -e, extends this behaviour to empty lines as well.

dt: Format date and/or time in various variants useful in filenames

dup: Like "cat", but outputs multiple (default: 2) copies of the data.

emq: Add e-mail style quoting marks to text.

enflow:
 Convert between flowtext (newlines ony at the end of and between paragraphs)
 and word-wrapped text (a single space at the end of continuation line within
 a logical paragraph. Some editors (such as "joe") have a special editing mode
 for this.

flowesc:
 Intended to used together with "qstr" in order to edit flow-text string
 literals embedded with in C source text. Use "qstr" first to remove the
 quotes. Then use "flowesc" to get rid of the literal "\n" at the ends of the
 last lines of all paragraphs. Now you can edit the text, provided your text
 editor has mode for interpreting trailing spaced at the end of lines as soft
 line breaks within longer paragraphs. After editing, re-apply both filters in
 reverse order to get the C string literals back.

flowtext_rfc3676:
 Convert between one-logical-line-is-one-paragraph text files and such which
 have been word-wrapped according to the RFC 3676 specs for format=flowed
 e-mail text files. Multiple levels of quoting in the text, if any, will be
 converted, too.
 .
 When formatting flow text back into RFC 3676, delta specifications have
 precedence: If both an indentation level delta and an absolute indentation
 level are specified, the absolute level is ignored.

foldwrap:
 Converts between 2 word-wrapped representations of original "one long
 physical line is one logical paragraph" format. One format uses space
 characters at the end of a continued line within a logical paragraph.
 .
 The other format considers lines idented by a single space to be the
 continuation lines within the paragraph.

html2ascii-with-aart-tables:
 Wrapper for "w3m" which converts HTML into plain text, including tables. Table
 borders are rendered using ASCII-art box-drawing characters.

ind: Indent or de-indent a block of text.

latin9ize-unicode-text:
 Convert text into LATIN-9 encoding. Normalizes whitespace into simple spaces.

lcase: Locale-aware conversion of text into lower letters.

lcase-extension:
 Like "lcase", but only the extensions of file names are converted.
 For instance, will covert "My Image.JPG" into "My Image.jpg"

less-human:
 Word-wrap "every physical line represents a logical paragraph"-text for
 display only text and use "less" to actually display it.

limit-accumulated:
 Filter similar to "head". But instead of counting leading input lines as the
 condition when to stop, this filter will add together the floating point
 values from a specified column of the input file. The filter will output all
 lines until the sum reaches the specified limit.
 .
 This can be used to only report the largest or smallest entries of a sorted
 column-based text.

line-length-maximum-show:
 Shows the length of the largest physical line in the text.
 Useful to verify that source code does not contain overlong lines.

locale-unicode-escape-decoder:
 Decodes sequences like "<U09>", "<U000a>" in the text into Unicode first,
 then converts anything which is not ASCII back to the same representation.

mkpairs:
 Create the cross product of all input lines preserving their original order,
 outputting the resulting pairs separated by a tab character.

more-human: Like "less-human", but using "more" for displaying the result.

oct_quote:
 Filter which converts all nonprintables except for ASCII LF into C escape
 sequences.
 .
 This tool is very handy for editing emails which use different character
 encodings in its various MIME parts.

oct_unquote: Reverse the effect of "oct_quote".

prefixed-subsymbol-extractor

qin: Quote strings for proper usage as shell arguments

qlines: Filter for shell-quoting input lines.

paragraph-lineescapes-toggle: Toggles between text which encodes multiple
 paragraphs, enumerations or preformatted text into a single line, and the
 expansion of this encoding. The encoding consists of the substrings " \n "
 for a single newline and " \n\n " for two consecutive newlines. No other
 transformations take place.

qsh:
 Quote shell metacharacters. If option -s is specified, the resulting lines
 will be output as quoted strings, or the quotes will be removed when
 unquoting. By default, single quotes will be used - but options -d and -2
 will make the script use double quotes instead.

qstr:
 Identify common line prefixes and suffixes and remove them both. The text is
 prefixed by a header line which, when found, will instead restore the
 original format by re-adding the stripped prefixes and suffixes (and remove
 said header line after this).
 .
 This is handy to convert string literals or comments in some programming
 language into plain text temporarily, which can then be edited and re-flown
 before converting them back into literals or comments.

revisiontime:
 Display the current UTC date and/or time (with option -3) as a string which
 looks like a revision number. The first component will be the year, the
 second will be the day number within the year. The optional third component
 will be the time within the day transformed into the range 0-999.

ringbuffer_file:
 Append text to a fixed-size ring-buffer file or retrieve the current contents
 of the file. The first line in the ring buffer is usually only a partial line
 and should be ignored.

rmk:
 Convert test into source-text comments. Default is POSIX shell comments, but
 C, C++ and JavaDoc-style comments can also be selected.

roman-numerals-to-decimal: Convert roman numerals to decimal numbers.

rtrim: Remove trailing whitespace from input.

ruler-for-terminal-columns:
 Show a "ruler" demonstrating column positions. Useful for temporarily
 inserting the output into text which must be restrcited to a specific line
 length, even though the editor uses more columns.

squeeze:
 Replace runs of empty lines (or lines containing only whitespace) by single
 empty lines. Also removes all empty lines (or lines containing only
 whitespace) from the beginning and end of the output.

squeeze-multiple-empty-lines:
 Same as "squeeze" but can optionally also normalize whitespace within
 non-empty lines.

splc89:
 C89 does not allow string literals longer than 4095 characters. This filter
 inserts or removes ","-characters every 50 lines in order to break a long
 string literal (consisting of single-line string literals no longer than 80
 characters to be concatenated by the C compiler) into an array of string
 literals not longer than 4000 characters.

text-formatters-help:
 *This* script. Explains what most of the text reformatters (in the same
 directory as this script) will do.

title2filename:
 Transform a list of movie or song titles into ASCII strings suitable as
 portable file names. This loses information. The converted names cannot be
 converted back automatically.

titlecase: Convert the first character of each word into upper letter case.

traditionalize_locale-encoded_pathnames:
 Like "title2filename", but revertible without information loss. Will output
 lines like "=latin_capital_letter_u_with_diaeresis=bermensch". Also supports
 reversing the transformation back to Unicode.

trigraph_mk:
 Convert C source code into functionally equivalent text which uses "trigraph"
 sequences wherever possible in order to avoid characters which can also be
 represented by "trigraph"-sequences.

trim:
 Remove leading and trailing whitespace and replace all remaining runs of
 whitespace by a single space.

ucase: Convert all lower-case characters into upper-case.

unfold-paragraphs:
 Removes newline characters separating the lines of a logical paragraph. A
 logical paragraph is a set of un-indented lines which are not empty.
 .
 Within a paragraph, runs of multiple whitespace characters will be compressed
 into a single space, and trailing whitespace will be removed.
 .
 Indented and empty lines will be considered preformatted and will be passed
 through unchanged.

The described compression of whitespace character allows a block-justified
 text to be returned into its original form before the justification.

unfold-s: Undoes the effect of "fold -s"

unwrap:
 Convert formatted text to free-flowed text. Assume empty lines to separate
 paragraphs. Also every line starting with most special characters is
 considered a (bulled point) paragraph, unless the line before it contains
 whitespace at its end, in which case it is assumed to be just another
 continuation line.

uqsh: Reverses the effect of "qsh", i.e. removes one level of shell quoting.

urldecode: Reverses the effect of "urlencode".

urlencode:
 URL-encodes any number of string arguments and / or lines read from standard
 input (if it is not a terminal).

win2utf8: Converts a text file from Windows charset CP-1252 into UTF-8.

win2utf8-multiple:
 Converts the contents of a list of files from from Windows charset CP-1252
 into UTF-8.

word-lines-from-text-revertible:
 Losslessly convert text into a format which contains only a single "word" per
 line (with no whitespace in it). Can also convert such text back into the
 original text containing whitespace. This is useful for making word-based
 diffs and apply them as patches.

xg: Write the text of the primary X11 selection to standard output.

xs: Set text read from standard input as the primary X11 selection.
=====
}

help_text | dot-as-paragraph-separator-toggle | less
